What we've done thus far is we looked
at the beginnings of how to get
custom data into Gatsby, our custom
pages into Gatsby, I should say and
then we've we've dug into
getting custom data in.
And we were able to get authors and
books into the data layer and
create relationships between them.
But I actually wanna take that a step
further where I want to extend
this a little bit because right now,
if we go and look at our data,
there's no way to purchase these books.
So I can get, the ID,
I can get the series, series order, but
there's no opportunity for
me to get, purchase the book.
So we're going to extend this thing and
add the capability to buy it.
So let's get into our Gatsby node again.
And what we're gonna do now is I'm
just gonna head down to the bottom,
we're gonna use a third API,
this API is called CreateResolvers.
And a little bit of vocabulary here,
a resolver is a term in GraphQL for
a function that returns data for
a given field.
That's how the field resolves.
So, if we want to have a custom field,
we need to provide a custom resolver for
it, which is why we're going
to use CreateResolvers here.
And Gatsby's smart enough to infer data so
that we don't have to
also declare the type.
We could, it wouldn't hurt anything but
it's gonna make our lives a little bit
easier to have all this code in one place,
so I'm gonna pull in another helper.
So CreateResolvers and
then CreateResolvers.
All right, then,
the way that we define resolvers is as
an object that loosely matches the schema.
So, if our data type is book,
we add an object called book, and
then any fields that we wanna add
in the book, we can add here.
So I wanna create one called bio link.
And the bio link for
this book is also an object.
And inside of it, it's gonna have two
things, a type, and a resolve function.
So this is the core setup
of a custom resolver.
So let's start by just running this so
that we can see how it works.
So we call CreateResolvers by
passing in these resolvers.
I'm gonna make this a string and
I'm going to have it
just return a string that says to do and
let's give this a shot.
Let's see what happens
when we actually run this.
So I'm running Netlify Dev.
It's starting up the Gatsby
development server.
And when we come out here and
refresh the page,
we now have a bio link and
if I, so let's get the books,
turn off the author,
though, how about that?
Let's get just the name and the bio
link to make it a little bit easier.
So we can see,
here's the title of the book and
now we can see that our bio link is to do,
so we were able to add a new field.
And now we can do
whatever we want in here.
I wanna make this actually
return a link and
the link that I wanna return
is gonna be to Pauwels books.
So I have an ISBN and so Pauwels books
is a huge bookstore in Portland, Oregon.
And I was looking around
to see how this works.
And it turns out that if you search for
an ISBN, you will find it.
So if I go into one of my books, and
I get the ISBN, I come back here and
search, We have a URL that
results in finding the book.
So this isn't perfect.
There's probably a better way to do it.
But this one doesn't require an API key
and it supports an independent bookstore.
So I'm pretty happy about that.
So let's grab this link here, and
I want to return this bio link and
I'm, see does that hot reload here and
actually tried this.
Let's see.
It does not how we load, so
I'm not gonna restart the server.
But as you can see this is close,
this would give us a bio link.
But we've hard coded the ISBN.
Fortunately, the resolver
is gonna get the node and
pass it in as the first argument,
so we can call that source.
And then if I convert this
to a template string,
I can actually go right in here and
say source.ISBN, and
now it should on resolution give us
a custom bio link for each book.
So, we've been able to enrich our data
now, so let's restart this thing.
See how it goes.
All right, okay, so let's double
check that one of these works.
So here's A Man Called Ove,
and if you click it takes
you right to the Pauwel site and
there's the book.
Okay, perfect.
So, we now have enriched data and
our Gatsby site, pretty excellent.
But we're not quite there yet because this
is a book club and I wanna be able to
show a little bit more data, I wanna
be able to show the cover of the book.
And for us to do that, we need to figure
out how to get the cover first and
foremost.
But we also then, it's gonna be remote.
I wanna be able to bring
that into Gatsby and
take advantage of Gatsby
image optimization.